_content/raceweek.md, before:

---
title: My race week journal
date: 2023/1/8
description: 20 weeks of training ends this week!
tag: running
author: Joe Niemiec
---
Wanted to capture a marathon race week one day at a time. No filter. Probably super boring, but always enjoy the emotion and mental aspect of race prep and I wanted to share what I'm thinking. Oh and if you want to track me on Sunday checkout the link below!

<div align="center"><a href="https://rtrt.me/ulink/HOUA/HOU-2023/tracker/R5ACUDJW/focus" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Use this link to track me on 1/15/23 @ 7:01AM CST!</a></div>

## Monday
A normal day. So normal in fact that as I write this I have a hard time believing I'm supposed to run a marathon this weekend! Did an easy 55 minute run today and my legs actually felt like they wanted to run for the first time in probably a week and a half. My focus for this week is just stretching, rest, and carbs. As of last week I'm also caffeine free till race day just to help keep from getting excited for no reason. The only time I did feel some excitement today was after getting a text from my coach with a weather update and some race week reminders. It's getting real and his excitement got me excited. Other then that I prefer to keep my excitement and emotion in a bottle on race week. Just keep storing it up. No **ADRENALINE** allowed!! Until race day. Wrapping up the day with stretching and 20 minutes in compression boots. 

## Tuesday
Legs are starting to tell me hey dude when are we doing our next workout? The feel unloaded which is a feeling I haven't had in months. 55 minutes again today while pushing Harper in the double stroller. Looked up splits today from Houston 2020 and started visualizing my strategy. Nothing in stone yet but coming up with some general ideas. Starting @ ~5:20's before moving towards 5:15ish goal pace. Seeing low 1:09 at the half. Negative split. Nutrition game plan. Basically trying to replicate Houston 2020, but a little faster. That said I'm also not trying to put pressure on the performance. 2020 Houston was a special race and it was dam near perfect from a splits perspective. However, I've done enough marathoning to know **EVERY MARATHON IS DIFFERENT** and you have to go with what you get on the day. For Sunday the main objective is **2:17:59** or faster. Bonus goal is to PR and go sub **2:17**. That said I want to leave room for the objectives to evolve based on how things feel when I get there and again when I'm at mile 20. Anything is possible.

## Wednesday

Commit message:

Added two days to journal

_content/raceweek.md, after:

---
title: My race week journal
date: 2023/1/8
description: 20 weeks of training ends this week!
tag: running
author: Joe Niemiec
---
Wanted to capture a marathon race week one day at a time. No filter. Probably super boring, but always enjoy the emotion and mental aspect of race prep and I wanted to share what I'm thinking. Oh and if you want to track me on Sunday checkout the link below!

<div align="center"><a href="https://rtrt.me/ulink/HOUA/HOU-2023/tracker/R5ACUDJW/focus" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Use this link to track me on 1/15/23 @ 7:01AM CST!</a></div>

## Monday
A normal day. So normal in fact that as I write this I have a hard time believing I'm supposed to run a marathon this weekend! Did an easy 55 minute run today and my legs actually felt like they wanted to run for the first time in probably a week and a half. My focus for this week is just stretching, rest, and carbs. As of last week I'm also caffeine free till race day just to help keep from getting excited for no reason. The only time I did feel some excitement today was after getting a text from my coach with a weather update and some race week reminders. It's getting real and his excitement got me excited. Other then that I prefer to keep my excitement and emotion in a bottle on race week. Just keep storing it up. No **ADRENALINE** allowed!! Until race day. Wrapping up the day with stretching and 20 minutes in compression boots. 

## Tuesday
Legs are starting to tell me hey dude when are we doing our next workout? They feel unloaded which is a feeling I haven't had in months. 55 minutes again today while pushing Harper in the double stroller. Looked up splits today from Houston 2020 and started visualizing my strategy. Nothing in stone yet but coming up with some general ideas. Starting @ ~5:20's before moving towards 5:15ish goal pace. Seeing low 1:09 at the half. Negative split. Nutrition game plan. Basically trying to replicate Houston 2020, but a little faster. That said I'm also not trying to put pressure on the performance. 2020 Houston was a special race and it was dam near perfect from a splits perspective. However, I've done enough marathoning to know **EVERY MARATHON IS DIFFERENT** and you have to go with what you get on the day. For Sunday the main objective is **2:17:59** or faster. Bonus goal is to PR and go sub **2:17**. That said I want to leave room for the objectives to evolve based on how things feel when I get there and again when I'm at mile 20. Anything is possible.

## Wednesday
THe ritualistic pre-race 400's. 12 reps around 72ish depending on if there was a 25mph gust of wind going or not! I ran in the hottest part of the day (74 degrees dew point 66) because it appears this race will be north of 55 with a dew point around 50. So I figured if I keep running when it's hot out this week maybe 55 will actually feel cool on race day. The only other thing of note was about three hours after this workout I was leaving work and I had a nerve spasm thing happen in my butt which lasted about 3 minutes and then faded. I had to chuckle cause that was honestly the first time something has really hurt during the last 20 weeks! Hopefully it's just a tweaked nerve and not something in the hamstring attachment.

## Thursday
Another low key day. 45 minute easy run and thankfully only some dull residual soreness from whatever that nerve thing was yesterday. I know I'm so scientific. But what am I supposed to do? No time to get it looked at and it doesn't hurt when running and it's got about 2.5 days to fix itself. It'll be fine. One of the more exciting things today was how excited my kids are to travel! Probably not for the race but they love hotels and race snacks. Soaking up this age they still think I'm a superhero.
